# Terms for Parts of DApp Connect

- Status: draft
- Deciders: No-Cash-7970
- Date: 2025-06-09
- Tags: dapp-connect, security, dev-process, docs

## Context and Problem Statement

The desktop wallet's [DApp Connect](20250608-use-dapp-connect-term-for-wallet-dapp-connection.md) feature consists of several important parts that will need to be mentioned frequently. It helps if terms are established for these important parts and then used consistently throughout the codebase and the documentation.

## Decision Drivers

- **Descriptiveness:** Each term need to sufficiently descriptive and succinct
- **Similarity to other terms:** To prevent confusion, each term should not be too similar to terms that are already used elsewhere
- **Prior use in project:** It is easier to use the terms that has been used frequently in this project's documentation and code

## Decision Outcome

Chose to establish terms for the parts of DApp Connect the following way:

- **dApp connect server** - The [local server](20240102-use-local-server-to-connect-to-dapps.md) embedded within the desktop wallet for connecting to dApps. *May be shortened to "connect server" or "server".*
- **dApp connect session** - The secure connection established between a dApp and the server. *May be shortened to "connect session" or "session".*
- **dApp connect session ID** - The public key that is used to uniquely identify the connect session for the server. *May be shortened to "connect session ID" or "session ID".*
- **dApp connect session key** - The unique private key generated by the server for the connect session. *May be shortened to "connect session key" or "session key".*
- **dApp connect session key pair** - A pair that consists of the session key and session ID. *May be shortened to "connect session key pair" or "session key pair".*
- **dApp ID** - The public key that usually (but not necessarily) uniquely identifies the dApp to the server.
- **dApp key** - The private key generated by the dApp.
- **dApp key pair** - A pair that consists of the dApp key and dApp ID.
- **dApp connect shared key** - The shared secret key derived and established [using ECDH between a dApp and the connect server](20250609-use-ecdh-for-hawk-shared-secret-key.md). *May be shortened to "connect shared key" or "shared key"*.

### Positive Consequences

- Consistent use of a clear terms improves documentation and code
- Less work in the long run

### Negative Consequences

- Older documentation and code that used other terms need to be revisited and edited to use newly decided terms
- More work is necessary immediately

## Links

- Refines [Use \"DApp Connect\" Term for Wallet-DApp Connection](20250608-use-dapp-connect-term-for-wallet-dapp-connection.md)
- Relates to [Use Local Server to Connect to DApps](20240102-use-local-server-to-connect-to-dapps.md)
- Relates to [Use Hawk for DApp Connection Authentication and Authorization](20240821-use-hawk-for-dapp-connection-authentication-and-authorization.md)
- Relates to [Use \"DApp\" in Prose and \"Dapp\" in Code](20250608-use-dapp-in-prose-and-dapp-in-code.md)
- Relates to [Use ECDH for Hawk Shared Secret Key](20250609-use-ecdh-for-hawk-shared-secret-key.md)
